1. J Clin Aesthet Dermatol. 2026 Jun;19(6):15-21.

Topical Prescription Therapy for Psoriasis: An Expert Position Paper on 
Limitations of Published Guidelines and Treatment Selection With Updated 
Recommendations.

Burshtein J(1), Zakria D(2), Bhutani T(3), Bunick CG(4), Costner M(5), 
DiRuggiero D(6), Friedman A(7), Golant AK(2), Song EJ(8), Gold LS(9), Young 
M(10), Del Rosso JQ(11).

Author information:
(1)Dr. Burshtein is with the Department of Dermatology, University of Illinois 
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
(2)Drs. Zakria and Golant are with the Department of Dermatology, Icahn School 
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.
(3)Dr. Bhutani is with the Department of Dermatology, University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(4)Dr. Bunick is with the Department of Dermatology, Yale School of Medicine, 
New Haven, Connecticut.
(5)Dr. Costner is with the Department of Dermatology, UT Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas.
(6)Dr. DiRuggiero is with Skin Cancer and Cosmetic Dermatology Center, Rome, 
Georgia.
(7)Dr. Friedman is with the Department of Dermatology, George Washington 
University School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Washington, District of 
Columbia.
(8)Dr. Song is with Frontier Dermatology, Mill Creek, Washington.
(9)Dr. Stein Gold is with Dermatology Clinical Research, Henry Ford Health 
System, Detroit, Michigan.
(10)Ms. Young is with Mindful Dermatology, Dallas, Texas.
(11)Dr. Del Rosso is with JDR Dermatology Research, Las Vegas, Nevada.

BACKGROUND: Clinical guidelines serve as summaries of available treatment 
options, often coupled with specific recommendations related to treatment 
selection, and have benefits and limitations. Guidelines often influence how 
individual clinicians and/or third-party payors select treatments for patients.
OBJECTIVE: This expert position article reviews the intent of treatment 
guidelines, discusses guidelines for topical psoriasis therapies, and provides 
recommendations for guideline updates. The recommended approaches discussed in 
this article by the authors align directly with therapy selection made when 
clinicians incorporate shared decision-making with the individual patient.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature search of PubMed, Scopus, and Google Scholar 
was completed on May 20, 2025, using a combination of keywords "psoriasis," 
"topical," "treatments," "adverse effects," and "clinical guidelines" along with 
Boolean term "AND" for English-language original research articles, systematic 
reviews, narrative reviews, and meta-analyses without date restrictions. The 
expert position presented by the authors is limited to a discussion of topical 
therapies for psoriasis.
RESULTS: Clinical guidelines are developed with the overall intent of enhancing 
healthcare quality; however, they are not designed to constrain or supplant the 
clinician's decisions in determining a suitable treatment for an individual 
patient. Limitations of published guidelines include susceptibility to becoming 
outdated, lack of individualized care, variability in development, and 
incomplete reflection of evolving practice patterns or individual patient 
circumstances. The results of this review of clinical guidelines reflect the 
authors' conclusions from analysis of the published data, including the 
evaluation of how they may influence treatment selection for psoriasis by 
clinicians. Regarding topical psoriasis treatment, initial therapy should be 
supported by Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval and labeling. These 
include topical roflumilast, tapinarof, topical corticosteroids, and vitamin D 
analogs in the same category, with no utilization management criteria dictating 
order of use.
LIMITATIONS: The results of this review are limited by the inability to include 
literature that was not present in the databases queried. As this review is 
based on previously published data, there is potential for reporting and 
publication bias.
CONCLUSION: This expert position paper encourages decision-makers to work with 
clinicians in providing individualized, accessible care, rather than relying 
solely on treatment guidelines to establish utilization management protocols. It 
is crucial that clinical guidelines evolve in a timely manner to reflect new 
therapeutic developments. Following FDA-approved indications, step-through 
requirements for any topical psoriasis therapy need to be abandoned, as this 
results in delays in treatment for the patient, unnecessary healthcare costs, 
and wasted use of healthcare resources.

Copyright © 2026. Matrix Medical Communications. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC13387667
PMID: 42482862

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES: Drs. Burshtein and Zakria have no 
conflicts relevant to the contents of this article. Dr. Bhutani has received 
research funding from Amgen, Castle, CorEvitas, Novartis, Pfizer, and Regeneron. 
She has served as an advisor for AbbVie, Apogee, Arcutis, Aslan, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Castle, Dermavant, Galderma, Incyte, Janssen, 
LEO Pharma, Lilly, Oruka, Pfizer, Novartis, Sanofi, Sun Pharmaceuticals, Takeda, 
Taxa, and UCB. She is a speaker for AbbVie, Amgen, Arcutis, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Dermavant, Galderma, Janssen, LEO Pharma, Lilly, Mindera, Ortho, Sanofi, 
and UCB. Dr. Bunick has served as an investigator and/or consultant for AbbVie, 
Almirall, Alumis, Amgen, Apogee, Arcutis, Botanix, Castle Biosciences, Connect 
BioPharma, Daiichi Sankyo, Dermavant, Disc Medicine, EPI Health/Novan, Galderma, 
Incyte, LEO Pharma, Lilly, Novartis, Ortho Dermatologics, Palvella, Pfizer, 
Regeneron, Sanofi, South Beach Symposium, Sun Pharmaceuticals, Takeda, Timber, 
Teladoc, Triveni, UCB, and Veradermics. Dr. Costner has served on the speaker 
bureau for AbbVie, Arcutis, Incyte, Lilly, Organon, and Sanofi; on ad boards for 
AbbVie, Arcutis, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, Novartis, Organon, and Sanofi. Dr. 
DiRuggiero has served as an advisory board and/or speakers bureau member for 
AbbVie, Amgen, Arcutis, Dermavant, Galderma, Incyte, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, 
Novartis, Sanofi/Regeneron, and UCB. Dr. Friedman has served as a consultant, 
advisor, and/or speaker for and/or received grants from AbbVie, Arcutis, 
Galderma, Hoth Therapeutics, Incyte, Johnson & Johnson, Kenvue, L’Oréal, La 
Roche Posay, LEO Pharma, Lilly, Microcures, Mino Labs, Novartis, Pfizer, 
Sanofi-Regeneron, Takeda, UCB, and Zylo Therapeutics. Dr. Golant declares 
personal fees from AbbVie, Amgen, Apogee Therapeutics, Arcutis, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Dermavant, Galderma, Incyte, Janssen, LEO 
Pharma, Lilly, Oruka Therapeutics, Pfizer, Regeneron, Sanofi, and Takeda 
Pharmaceuticals. Dr. Song has been an investigator, consultant, and/or speaker 
for AbbVie, Acelyrin, Alphyn, Alumis, Amgen, Apogee, Arcutis, ASLAN, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Castle Biosciences, CorEvitas, Dermavant, 
DermBiont, Galderma, Incyte, Janssen, LEO Pharma, Lilly, MoonLake, Novartis, 
Pfizer, Regeneron, Sanofi Genzyme, Sun Pharmaceuticals, TARGET PharmaSolutions, 
TIMBER, UCB, and Zura Bio. Dr. Stein Gold has served as an advisor, consultant, 
speaker, or investigator for Amgen, AbbVie, Almirall, Arcutis, Bausch 
Health/Valeant, OrthoDermatologics, Bristol Myers Squibb, Cara, Organon, 
Dermira, Incyte, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, LEO Pharma, Lilly, Galderma, Novartis, 
Sun Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer, Sanofi, Regeneron, and UCB. Ms. Young has been a 
research investigator, advisor and/or speaker for AbbVie, Alumis, Arcutis, 
Bristol Myers Squibb, Janssen, Lilly, Novartis, Organon, Oruka, Pfizer, Roche, 
Sanofi, Sun Pharmaceuticals, Takeda, UCB, and Veraderics. Dr. Del Rosso is a 
consultant/advisor, research investigator, and/or speaker for AbbVie, Almirall, 
Alumis, Amgen, Apogee, Arcutis, Bausch Health/OrthoDermatologics, Beiersdorf, 
Biofrontera, Bluefin, Blueprint Medicines, Botanix, Bristol Myers Squibb, Cara, 
Celgene, Ferndale, Galderma, Incyte, Janssen, Johnson & Johnson, LaRoche Posay, 
LEO Pharma, Lilly, L’Oréal, MC2 Therapeutics, MoonLake, Novan, Oruka, Pelthos 
Therapeutics, Pfizer, Regeneron, Sanofi, Sun Pharma, Takeda, Trevi, UCB, and 
Verrica.


2. Int J Pharm. 2026 Jul 10;700:127049. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2026.127049. Epub 
2026 Jun 9.

Targeting cutaneous inflammation: A review on advanced topical delivery systems 
and precision medicine in psoriasis.

Bobde M(1), Purohit A(1), Nema P(1), Sahu A(1), Kashaw V(2), Soni V(1), Kashaw 
SK(3).

Author information:
(1)Integrated Drug Discovery Research laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Dr Hari Singh Gour University (A Central University), Sagar, MP, 
India.
(2)Sagar Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sagar, MP, India.
(3)Integrated Drug Discovery Research laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Dr Hari Singh Gour University (A Central University), Sagar, MP, 
India. Electronic address: sushilkashaw@dhsgsu.edu.in.

Psoriasis is a chronic autoimmune-mediated inflammatory skin disorder that is 
characterized by increased keratinocyte proliferation, abnormalities in the 
immune system, and abnormalities in the epidermal barrier. The conventional 
topical treatments for the management of psoriasis include corticosteroids, 
vitamin D analogues, and keratolytic. The long-term efficacy of these topical 
treatments for the management of psoriasis is marred by issues such as skin 
penetration difficulties, side effects, tachyphylaxis, and poor patient 
compliance. In recent times, nanotechnology-based drug delivery systems such as 
liposomes, transferosomes, ethosomes, solid lipid nanoparticles, nanostructured 
lipid particles, and nano emulsions have been identified as potential 
therapeutic tools for the management of psoriasis. The nanotechnology-based drug 
delivery system has the potential to improve the solubility of the drug, 
permeability of the drug through the stratum corneum layer of the skin, and 
release and retention of the drug in the skin layer. In addition, the recent 
trends in the management of psoriasis have opened new avenues for the management 
of this condition. The review article discusses the pathology of psoriasis, the 
current treatment options for the management of psoriasis, and the recent 
advances in nanotechnology-based topical drug delivery for the management of 
psoriasis.

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2026.127049
PMID: 42264053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Minakshi Bobde reports writing 
assistance was provided by Dr Hari Singh Gour University Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences. If there are other authors, they declare that they have 
no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


3. Roflumilast (Zoryve): Indication: For the topical treatment of plaque
psoriasis  of the scalp and body in patients 12 years of age and older:
Reimbursement  Recommendation [Internet].

Ottawa (ON): Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health; 2026 Jun. 
Report No.: SR0918.
CADTH Reimbursement Reviews and Recommendations.

WHAT IS THE REIMBURSEMENT RECOMMENDATION FOR ZORYVE? Canada’s Drug Agency 
(CDA-AMC) recommends that Zoryve be reimbursed by public drug plans for the 
topical treatment of plaque psoriasis of the scalp and body in patients aged 12 
years or older.
WHY DID CDA-AMC RECOMMEND REIMBURSEMENT? The Canadian Drug Expert Committee 
(CDEC) determined that Zoryve provides clinical value compared to vehicle only, 
but it is uncertain whether roflumilast demonstrates acceptable clinical value 
versus other topical therapies used in practice in Canada — including vitamin D 
analogues, topical corticosteroids, fixed-dose combination products, and topical 
calcineurin inhibitors — in patients with plaque psoriasis of the scalp and 
body. Given that roflumilast is expected to be an alternative to these 
therapies, acceptable clinical value refers to having at least comparable value 
versus available treatment options. Evidence from 1 randomized, double-blind, 
phase III trial demonstrated that treatment with roflumilast for 8 weeks 
improved disease clearance, itch severity, and scalp-specific disease severity 
compared with vehicle in patients with plaque psoriasis of the scalp and body. 
These outcomes were considered clinically meaningful because itch and visible 
disease are important contributors to disease burden and worsening quality of 
life. Evidence from 1 sponsor-submitted indirect treatment comparison suggested 
that roflumilast may improve certain scalp-specific outcomes compared with 
calcipotriol; however, the results were highly uncertain. For other relevant 
topical comparators, there was no evidence of a difference, although estimates 
were imprecise and uncertain. The committee acknowledged that plaque psoriasis 
is a chronic condition associated with substantial morbidity, including 
persistent itch, visible lesions, and psychosocial burden. Patients and 
clinicians identified limitations with existing therapies, including inadequate 
effectiveness for some patients, tolerability concerns with long-term 
corticosteroid use, and challenges with applying conventional topical 
formulations to hair-bearing and sensitive areas. CDEC considered that 
roflumilast may address some of these unmet needs as a nonsteroidal topical 
treatment with a foam formulation suitable for scalp and body involvement. Based 
on all the preceding considerations, CDEC recommended that roflumilast be 
reimbursed.
WHICH PATIENTS ARE ELIGIBLE FOR COVERAGE? Zoryve should only be reimbursed for 
the topical treatment of plaque psoriasis of the scalp and body in patients aged 
12 years or older in line with the Health Canada indication and only be covered 
for patients with plaque psoriasis of the scalp and body for whom topical 
therapy is appropriate.
WHAT ARE THE CONDITIONS FOR REIMBURSEMENT? Zoryve should only be reimbursed if 
the total cost of Zoryve does not exceed the cost of treatment with the least 
costly topical therapy currently used to treat plaque psoriasis of the scalp and 
body. Important budget impact considerations must be addressed for health 
systems to be able to adopt Zoryve.

PMID: 42485470


4. Ital J Dermatol Venerol. 2026 Jun;161(3):236-247. doi: 
10.23736/S2784-8671.26.08455-0. Epub 2026 Apr 28.

Isolated nail psoriasis: diagnostic challenges and therapeutic advances.

Chalupczak NV(1), Lipner SR(2).

Author information:
(1)Chicago Medical School, Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA - 
shl9032@med.cornell.edu.

Isolated nail psoriasis, defined as psoriatic nail disease with no or little 
involvement of the skin, is a clinically significant yet frequently 
underrecognized condition. Its presentation often mimics other nail disorders 
such as onychomycosis or lichen planus which can lead to delayed diagnosis and 
inappropriate treatment. Patients may experience substantial functional 
impairment and psychosocial distress. This review highlights current knowledge 
of the epidemiology, clinical manifestations, and diagnostic challenges of 
isolated NP, with emphasis on populations where disease recognition is 
particularly difficult, including children, older adults, and patients with skin 
of color. Therapeutic options range from topical corticosteroids and vitamin D 
analogs to intralesional injections and systemic therapies. Despite recent 
therapeutic advances, response rates are often slower and less complete than in 
cutaneous psoriasis due to slow physiologic nail growth and treatment 
dissatisfaction is common. There is a need for standardized diagnostic criteria, 
validated outcome measures, and greater representation of diverse patient 
populations in clinical studies. Early identification and individualized 
treatment approaches are essential to reducing the burden of isolated NP on 
patient quality of life and long-term outcomes.

DOI: 10.23736/S2784-8671.26.08455-0
PMID: 42047681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]